Fridays are awesome. I'm Carl
azuz. This is CNN Student
News your daily 10-minute break
down of world events. We're
starting with news concerning Russia.
The world's largest country in
land area is building up
its military presence in the
Black Sea Russia borders part
of this body of water.
It also controversially annexed Crimea
in 2014. The peninsula house
has a significant Russian sea
port in the Black Sea.
Also in the region the
US has sent several F-22
Raptor warplanes to Romania another
border country of the sea.
So what's the significance of
all this will relations between
the US and Russia are
at a low point and
America has been showing support
for its allies in the
region who were members of
NATO the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization a group of countries
that banded together after World
War Two to balance out
the Military strength of the
Soviet Union. So a military
buildup in the Black Sea
is like an international show
of power. The Black Sea
has become one of the
most hotly contested and heavily
militarized regions. This is not
a new phenomenon for hundreds
of years. Russia has seen
the Black Sea as strategically
vital and if you take
a look at a map,
it's not hard to see
why this black sea is
so strategically valuable to Russia
firstly it acts essentially as
a bridge between two continents
a Gateway between Europe and
the Middle East and it
also provides crucial access to
the Mediterranean and two oceans
beyond that gives it value
commercially, but also gives it
importance militarily and if you
take a look at the
conflict in Syria, you can
see that the Black Sea
provides a vital strategic and
Logistics Hub to the Russians
who are carrying out Military
activities in that conflict there.
Now, if you also take
a look at the other
countries that are bordering the
Black Sea, it'll help you.
The situation a little bit
better, Ukraine, Romania Bulgaria, Georgia
and turkey with the exception
of turkey all of them
were either Soviet States or
part of the Soviet Bloc
and with Georgia and Ukraine
aspiring to move closer to
Nato. Russia is increasingly surrounded
by treaty allies. Russia has
said again and again that
it strongly believes that former
Soviet republics should remain under
the Russian sphere of influence
and it is also been
complaining for decades about what
it calls NATO aggression essentially
that Western Alliance, which it
sees as pushing up aggressively
against Russia's borders. Okay. Now
we're diving deeper International Maritime
tensions aren't limited to the
Black Sea we've reported on
China's controversial buildup of man-made
islands in the South China
Sea. The u.s. Is reportedly
planning to use submarine drones
to help keep tabs on
that region and American officials
say that Russian submarine activity
is at levels that the
u.s. Navy hasn't seen in
decades. Russia has increased its
Patrols in the Atlantic including
in areas near us Waters.
So the American Military is
trying to keep its upper
hand by developing Subs like
the USS, Missouri and CNN
recently got the chance to
climb aboard. This is a
very important time for submarine
operation their way of projecting
power across the planet really
silently is called the silent
service their job is to
hide really so no one
knows where they are. I'm
standing on the bridge of
the USS Missouri. It's a
nuclear attack submarine. So rare
visit really one of the
most incredible things I've ever
done as a reporter. We're
going to show you what
it is like to live
and work on board here
where people sleep where they
eat where they do their
jobs dangerous job at times
lot boy, the world is
is as quite a proliferation
of submarines and the best
way right now to find
another submarine is with a
submarine the bad guys whoever
they are have to assume
that there's a sub within
range if they were to
do anything is that the
stealth is clearly without stealth
a submarine could not do
the missions. It does we
were operating places where we
didn't have to rely on
an adversary being there to
challenge us, but that's changing
understand Warnock since we're going
out just on a training
Mission. Most of these Torpedoes
are what are called practice
shots. They don't have actual
ordinance on them. But you
look at the green ones
here. These are actual live
Torpedoes and anytime u.s. Submarine
goes out a port. It's
carrying at least a couple
of these for self-defense. The
firing order is tubes five
and eight. the window to
five and two bait shooting
that was the huge rush
of air pressure that it
fires out in this case
water slug at torpedo tube
full of water, but you
could feel the pressure change
in your ears not just
down here in the torpedo
room, but throughout the entire
submarine just shows you what
kind of power is necessary
to get that torpedo out
of the tube. This is
the beginning of what they
call angles and dangles a
series of steep descents and
a sense designed to show
the full capability of the
boat. But also to test
the crews Readiness you hearing
that alarm as we approach
20° going to get to
a 25 degree angle. Keep
in mind. I'm standing up
straight now. What is I'm
leaning forward that's keeping me
vertical in relation to the
ground. As the angle of
sin gets sharper. Someone asked
me today if u.s. Submarine
forces are preparing for war.
We're not at War certainly
not with another power that
has submarine capability. But yes,
they are preparing every day
for that possibility in case
it were to happen. They
want to be prepared if
called upon to act. Starting
today's roll call in a
Central American country between Guatemala
and Nicaragua. We're talking about
Honduras and it's great to
see everyone at Good Shepherd
Christian Academy in zamorano to
the city of Toccoa Georgia.
Now, we've got the Indians
watching today. Shout out to
Stevens County high school. And
in the US Northeast makes
sense. We'd make a stop
at Northeast Middle School. It's
in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania the home
of the Hornets. For we
go three words Jurassic Park
tortoise supposed to remind you
of the movie. But instead
of vicious Velociraptor is and
tyrannical tyrannosauruses. It's got a
tortoise. His name's Louie. He's
got his own pool grazing
area and Visitor Center and
if you happen to find
yourself trapped inside with the
power out and nothing to
keep you company, but a
cold-blooded chelonian. Well, you can
just walk to the house
Lewis seems to like it.
It's really brought him out
of it's shell and if
you said he'd picked up
a bad habit at he'd
probably rep tell you to
snap it or tour tell
you to crawl away. Of
course, no one knows for
sure, but we're certain that's
what his retort asst. I'm
Carl azuz have an amazing
weekend.